Friends here our concept is input and output commands for Shell script.
Let me explain them with a simple shell script.
So I'm taking a shell script called input-output dot SH.
Let me open that and let me write the very first line as our shebang line.
Then I am giving you a name called suppose arguments, something like that.
Now my requirement is whatever the string is there in
your variable that I want to convert into uppercase and then I want to print that.
So you know how to convert your data into uppercase directly.
You can convert on display with the help of the echo command,
or you can take one more variable,
let's say my name in uppercase.
Then you have a syntax for this promoter string operations,
my name to cap symbols.
Then let me display that.
You are name in uppercase. Ease.
Now I'm displaying our variable,
that is my name Upper,
because in that only our converted data is there.
Our uppercase data is stored in my name uppercase?
No, let me see you this and provide the execution permissions for this.
And now let me run that, see the result.
So yeah, before running, see your code.
Now. See that is an Yes.
You are getting your data in terms of uppercase.
And if you observe, you are getting your output by using echo command.
That's way. Ico is called output command for
your shell script allele we know about yet go in detail already we have seen about eco.
Fine.
Now, if I run our shell script any number of times,
always you are getting output as Narendra only.
But I have a small requirement.
That is, whenever if I execute my shell script,
it has to ask enter your name.
So whatever the name we are entering that name,
it has to convert into uppercase and it has to display.
So already to display your data,
your name into uppercase, we have a lousy.
But only thing is whenever if you run your shell script,
it has to read some data with the help of a keyboard while running your shell script.
Then how we can perform that,
how we can achieve that.
Very simple.
Let me open my shell script and I'm going
to comment or let me remove that very first line.
Now I am writing a command called read.
Read, then some variable name I'm giving.
So first upsell your core.
And if I run that, see the result.
It is waiting for something.
Your cursor is waiting because the very first line is shebang line.
Then next line is you have something called read, some variable.
So because of this, read,
your cursor will wait on your command line while running your screen.
And if you provide some data and,
and if you press Enter keyboard,
enter key on your keyboard.
Then whatever the data we are providing here,
that data will go and store into this variable.
And this variable we are converting into
uppercase on data and that data we are storing into these variable.
Now see that I am giving suppose shell and I am pressing Enter key on my keyboard.
Now see there is a.
Now if we run any number of times.
Each time you can provide different data.
That's it. But whenever if you run your shells kid,
first let me open your script and I'm running our shelves to simply it is waiting.
So if it is waiting,
we can't understand that what we have to do next step.
Then in that case, you can modify your read command in this way,
simply read hyphen p. You can prompt some message.
Enter your name.
You can add any message which is required for us to display on your command line.
Now, let me say this.
Now run this and see the output.
Now instead of giving empty line,
nobody is giving some information so that by using this information,
we can understand that we have to enter something.
So that's what is the by using hyphen p option,
hyphen p in quotation,
just write some strings so that that string will display
on your command line while excluding read command.
Now whatever the data we are entering here, again,
the data will go and store into my name.
Suppose I am entering here shell scripting.
Then enter, see that you're getting in terms of capital letters.
So this is the simply input command for your shell scripts.
And here you need to remember one more thing.
Suppose be clear.
If I don't take any variable name,
I will do one thing I will comment entail core.
So you know how to come into multiple lines,
less than, less than some name.
You can give it any name.
So I'm taking my comment,
then end with my command so that
the lines which are there between these two lines will come antenna.
Now, there are no lines to execute a new shell script because we commented them.
Fine.
Now simply I am using read hyphen p, enter your name.
And I'm not providing any variable name.
If you don't provide any variable in your read command by default,
whatever the data we are reading with the help of
read command that will store in the variable called Reply.
Now see that Berkeley, I'm displaying replay.
So replace the default variable for a read command.
Now see that I am writing something. You are getting that.
If you want to display some space in the output after giving this prompt message,
enter your name, you can write some space inside of your condition,
then that is actually clear.
Cat, say that there is now this code is commented, this won't execute.
The very first line in your query is read.
So and read in that read we have hyphen p, some message.
So whenever it is executing,
it will just let this message first on
your command line so that we can understand what we have to end up.
So I had to enter, suppose some name, let's say shell.
And if there is no variable in read Command Line, by default,
there is a default variable called reply in that your data will store.
That's why I'm displaying replay variable value.
Mostly that isn't or getting that.
So be clear, it is very important for interview question says, well,
what is the default variable for a read command,
capital letters replay is the default variable for a read command.
That's it. Let me do a very simple use case for a read command.
So in our previous video,
we have done install Tomcat dot SH.
And here, whenever if you want to change the Tomcat version,
we are opening the skip and we are editing the version number here.
Now instead of that, what I'm doing is I'm commenting the, this line.
And without buff read command, be clear guys,
I am writing v hyphen p,
end there you are.
You can write any message here.
And terroir required Tomcat to install git version to
install and take variable as required Tomcat version.
So that while you're running your core and the way this is the first line,
you are going to do good by your shell.
Then we'll display, and by seeing this information will enter some number.
And that number will store into this variable and
this variable we are using inside of our script so that your script will work.
Now no need to empty your script now.
Just a run. So this is your shell script.
Just run your shell script.
Then it is lasting enter your required Tomcat wash. And to Install.
Now I'm entering suppose nine dot dot B27.
If you want to install any version,
just thought that version name here and enter.
So that's it. It will work.
So that is the uses of read command, very, very useful.
Okay?
So it will download and it will extract, and we have,
we know the steps from our previous video,
what is doing this script?
So here our concentration is only unburied command.
Be clear about your read command.
Simply read hyphen p. You are
require misses what you want to display on your terminal while executing these commands.
And whatever the data you are entering on your personnel with the help of a key word,
that data, how to store into some variable,
that variable we are writing, we are taking here.
That's right. Okay.
Okay guys, thank you.